# AAC-Dashboard
AAC CRUD and Dashboard operation

Q - How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

A - During my time at SNHU i have found that the best way to write code is to develop in stages testing at the conclusion and making changes before moving to the next stage. By developing incrementally and testing along the way I can ensure that all requested features are incorporated while testing new work with existing verified code before introducing new unproven code in the project. As with this class project, For the first stage i created the CRUD operations and a testing script to ensure that the operations were working individually and as a whole with and without authentication. Once the operations were verified i was able to create the dashboard knowing that the previous steps are working allowing me to focus on new features. 

Q - How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

A - I begin to approach a problem by understanding what the overall problem is and what is expected from a sollution. For the dashboard project I read the requirements documentation adn understood that MR.Salvare wanted to have the ability to search a database and find animals that fit a specific criteria as well as to have additional interactions and viewing aids to efficiently find appropriate animals to a given task. To start with this problem i had to understand the software requirements and know how each software acts individually and interacts with other software. For the project I used MongoDB and Python knowing that it was important to the project that the software works well with eachother and MongoDB is developed with the use of Python in mind so it was a perfect choice for this project. In the future i would begin by setting up a database that took inputs that are most conducive to the filtering that is intended if known such as a column for rescue type preferences.

Q - What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

AIt is my opinion that a Computer Scientist uses computers and technology to solve and or evaluate problems and provide solutions or insight into solutiuons in the most efficient way possible. The computer scientist uses software, programming and systems thinking to get to base of the problem, evaluate it, and provide technological solutions or evaluations based on this process. Much like a mechanical or electrical engineer looks at architectural plans and evaluates needs and concerns from their respective viewpoint. I could see using a dashboard such as the one created for Mr. Salvare in my work as a Fiber Optic Technician where a database of projects could be created with products, schedule, costs, outcomes. This database coudl be added to a dashboard that filters for like projects to allow for bidding and material aquisition as well as losses from pricing and or timimg.
